Project Summary -
This project aimed to create a book recommendation system using unsupervised learning techniques. The project involved exploring and analyzing the data, visualizing relationships between variables, and experimenting with different charts to gain insights. The data was pre-processed and cleaned to handle missing values and outliers. Several recommender systems were built, including popularity-based filtering, correlation-based recommendations, collaborative filtering using cosine similarity and k-nearest neighbors. The project demonstrated the potential of these techniques to generate personalized book recommendations for users.

The book crossing dataset comprises of 3 files: Books, Users, and Ratings. The books csv contains 271360 rows and 8 columns. The users csv contains 278858 rows and 3 columns. The ratings csv contains 1149780 rows and 3 columns. There are almost 40% missing values in the age column of the user csv.

The main objective of the project was to create a book recommendation system for users. Recommender systems are algorithms aimed at suggesting relevant items to users. They are critical in some industries as they can generate a huge amount of income when they are efficient or also be a way to stand out significantly from competitors.

The project involved data wrangling, including renaming columns, changing datatypes, creating new columns from existing ones, and replacing errors in the data. Data visualization was used to understand the relationships between variables and gain insights from the data.

Several recommender systems were built, including popularity-based filtering, which ranks books based on their average rating and the number of ratings they have received; recommendations based on correlation, which generates recommendations for a specific book among books that have been rated a sufficient number of times; collaborative filtering using cosine similarity (User-User), which calculates the average rating for each book among the k most similar users to the input user; and collaborative filtering using k-nearest neighbors [kNN], which finds the k nearest neighbors of the input book and returns their ISBNs along with their distance to the input book.

Future work includes saving the best performing machine learning model in a pickle or joblib file format for deployment on a live server for real user interaction.# Book_Recommeder_System_Unsupervised_learning
